Backlink : [[IIT-B]]

---
# CH 107
### Course Info
 **Topics to be covered this year:**
Schrodinger equation, Origin of quantization, Born interpretation of wavefunction, Particle in a box, Rigid rotor, Hydrogen atom, Atomic orbitals, Many-electron atoms and spin orbitals. Chemical bonding: MO theory: LCAO molecular orbitals, bonding and energetics of diatomic molecules. polyatomics -  hybridization.  

**Books and other Resources:** 
1. P. Atkins and J. de Paula, Atkins  Physical Chemistry, Oxford University Press, 8th edition, 2006.
2. I. N. Levine, Physical Chemistry, 5th edition, Tata McGraw-Hill, New Delhi, 2002.
3. T. Engel and P. Reid, Physical Chemistry, Pearson Education, 2006

**Reference book:**
1. D. A. McQuarrie and J.D. Simon, Physical Chemistry - a molecular approach, Viva Books Pvt. Ltd. (1998).

### Modality of the course
Each division into **8 sections/tutorials**, and it is extremely important to identify which tutorial you belong to, as the live lecture/classes for various tutorial sections have different timings (all 4 divisions run in parallel).Please go through these using the common moodle interface at the earliest. Also, **attached is a course plan/ schedule till Feb 12** for you to go through. 

To aid in the process of learning, we have many teaching assistants to help you out. For all non-academic matters, contact Ms. Charine Astrid (charine@ chem.iitb.ac.in), the administrative assistant for CH107. 

---
1. Each week approx **2 hours (avg) of video** lectures will be uploaded on Thursdays which you should must see before the next week Mon/Tue live interactions.
2. **Live Interactions** (once every week on Mon/Tue in MS Teams interface) will be focused on discussions and Q&As on the topics in the video lectures.
3. Tutorial session will be held on every Wednesday. Solve the questions before joining the tutorial slots.
4. A mini-quiz of 10 minutes (graded) in each tutorial session will be taken (Tutorials will be held in MS Teams interface). There will be no make-up mini-quizzes. **Best 4 (four) of out 6 (six) mini-quiz marks will be chosen for grading**. 
5. **Weekly home assignments** (graded) will be due for submission on individual Divisions interface every Saturdays midnight. Here, we expect a single page (100-150 words) writeup where you have to write in your own words, 1) what you learnt from the video lectures the previous week and 2) concept you had difficulty in grasping from the video/live interactions/tutorials the previous week. A total of 5 home assignments have to be submitted by Saturday midnight. Late submissions are accepted till Sunday midnight with 50 % marks penalty. Submissions after Sunday midnight would lead to no marks awarded for that particular assignment.  
6. **A quiz** (graded) is scheduled on 11 Feb (Fri). Reporting time of all of you will be 7.45 am. This examination will be proctored. 
7. **Final examination** (graded) will be held in the week of March 9-14. Exact date/time will be announced and this examination will be proctored.      
8. UG TAs will be available to help you with in WhatsApp or moodle.

---
### Class Timings:
For all divisions (D1 to D4), tutorial batches (T1-T8) are the same as in MA109.
Live lecture timings are as follows:   
-   D1 (Amber, T1-T4)      : Mondays 11: 30 - 12: 25 am
-   D1 (Sandip, T5-T6)      : Mondays 11: 30 - 12: 25 am
-   D1 (Sandip, T7-T8)      : Mondays 3: 30 - 4: 25 pm
-   D2 (Achintya, T1-T8)  : Mondays 3: 30 - 4: 25 pm
-   D3 (Ishita, T1-T8)        : Mondays 3: 30 - 4: 25 pm
-   D4 (Shobhna, T1-T8)  : Mondays 11:30 -12: 25 am

**Office Hours (for all D1-D4): Tuesdays at 11:30 am.**
  
Tutorial class timings:   
-   Tutorials for D1 and D2 are scheduled at 4-5 pm on WEDNESDAYS
-   Tutorials for D3 and D4 are scheduled at 2-3 pm on WEDNESDAYS

### Grading Scheme and Marks Distribution
Total Marks: 50 
64% (proctored exam) and 36% (quizzes and home-assignments)

1. 6 mini-quizzes of 2 marks each (out of 50) will be conducted during tutorials. Best four mini-quiz marks will be chosen for grading - Weightage of **16 %**. 
2. 5 weekly home assignment of 2 marks each (out of 50) is due every Saturdays by midnight - Weightage of **20%**  
3. Quiz carrying 12 marks (out of 50) is scheduled on 11 Feb (Fri) - Weightage of **24%**
4. Final examination during week of March 9-14 carrying 20 marks - Weightage of **40%**

---
# Quantum Chemistry
[[Quantum Science]]

