When I first started learning how to code, there were countless times when I picked it up then gave up, again and again. This is a common story amongst self-taught coders. Looking back, after teaching so many students, I finally realise what’s going on. 

A lot of beginners start learning to code by picking an arbitrary language and follow along with a bunch of tutorials. Copying code, line by line, sometimes writing code to work out prime numbers, other times to find all the even numbers. But you know what? I can find prime numbers a lot faster by Googling for it and picking out even numbers is really not all that interesting. 

*Here’s the truth*. If you are learning to code for the sake of learning to code, it’ll be pretty difficult for you to get good at it. Skills that require a lot of time to hone, like programming, will eat into *your pool of internal motivation*. Something from within that makes you forget to eat and sleep. 

I can honestly say that coding on my own projects is one of the most enjoyable things I do. It combines logical thinking with creativity, and at the end, you will have made something. In most cases, something that the world has never seen. *Something that could make your life easier or more enjoyable*. *Something that could make loads of people's lives easier and more enjoyable*. It’s like making a crazy-beautiful custom motorbike in your garage, without needing the garage or spending a cent on the components. 

This is what motivates most people. *The creating part*. *The making part*. So I urge you to start learning to code by following a tutorial that makes something, anything. Of course, it’s unlikely that at the beginning you’ll be able to code up Clash of Clans or League of Legends. But you’ll be able to make something interesting. It could be a dice game or a flash-card app. But as long at the end of the tutorial, you’ll have made something you can use and play with, then you’ll be far more motivated to code to the end. 

During all our courses, we always tell our students to think up of a simple app that they want to make. Something that uses the skills that they’ve learnt during the course but will also stretch them a little because they have to find out how to include some new functionality. We had a student who went on to make an app that wakes them up a minute earlier every day to ease the transition to an earlier waking time. There’s a student who made a custom slideshow app as a mother’s day present. Someone else made an app that is a timer for making perfect steaks based on its weight and thickness. *There are no limits on your imagination*. 

*It will be difficult when you start working on your own app because there are no step-by-step instructions, but it will also bring about the biggest improvement in your coding ability.*